# Ubuntu EC2 instance t2.2xlarge
The instance is the core part of the project. We must differenciate between testing (model training and testing) and production (production ML pipeline).

## Launch and connect to the instance
I suggest to chose a non-free tier instance if you really want to train and deploy your own model. Unfortunately, the t2.micro offered by AWS as free tier, is not good enough to do it. Eventually it will get full just right after installing the dependencies.

**Step 1: Launch an Amazon EC2 Instance**

1. Log in to your AWS Management Console.
2. Navigate to the EC2 Dashboard.

   - Click on "Instances" in the left sidebar.
   - Click the "Launch Instances" button.

3. Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). You can select the latest Ubuntu Server image.

4. Configure the instance details (e.g., number of instances, VPC, subnet, security groups). Ensure that the security group allows SSH access (port 22) and Jupyter Notebook access (port 8888).

5. Configure the security group to allow SSH and Jupyter Notebook access. You can create a custom security group or modify the default one.

6. Review your instance configuration, and click "Launch."

7.  Choose an existing key pair or create a new one to securely access your instance via SSH. Download the private key (.pem) file and store it in a secure location.

8.  Launch the instance.

**Step 2: Connect to the EC2 Instance**

1. Open your terminal or SSH client.

2. Navigate to the directory where your private key (.pem) is located.

3. Use the following command to connect to the EC2 instance, replacing `your-key.pem` and `your-instance-public-ip` with your actual key file and instance details:

   ```bash
   ssh -i your-key.pem ubuntu@your-instance-public-ip
   ```

   Example:
   ```bash
   ssh -i my-key.pem ubuntu@123.456.78.90
   ```

**Step 3: Install docker on Ubuntu instance**

Docker is needed to pull the image that I created that includes the model and the producton pipeline.

Run the commands from [docker-installation](/AWS/EC2/docker-installation.sh) and docker will be succesfully installed inside your EC2.

After installing docker, pull my image from dockerhub:

```shell
docker pull docker push jsilesb/pyspark-transform:latest
```

Done! You have the setup to run pyspark code in EC2 instance.



